---
title: "Adaptive Algorithms for Automatic Link Selection in Multiple Access with Link Failures"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2025-05-28-paper
excerpt: 'This paper is about developing adpative algorithms for utility maximization with bandit feedback. The paper also looks at models with matching constraints'
date: 2025-05-28
venue: '23rd International Symposium on Modeling and Optimization in Mobile, Ad hoc, and Wireless Networks.'
paperurl: 'https://mevanwijewardena.github.io/files/paper_WiOpt_2025.pdf'
citation: 'Wijewardena & M., Neely, M.J. (2025, May). Adaptive Algorithms for Automatic Link Selection in Multiple Access with Link Failures. In 23rd International Symposium on Modeling and Optimization in Mobile, Ad hoc, and Wireless Networks'
---

## Abstract

This paper focuses on the problem of automatic link
selection in multi-channel multiple access control using bandit
feedback. In particular, a controller assigns multiple users to
multiple channels in a time slotted system, where in each time
slot at most one user can be assigned to a given channel and
at most one channel can be assigned to a given user. Given that
user $i$ is assigned to channel $j$, the transmission fails with a
fixed probability $f_{i,j}$ . The failure probabilities are not known
to the controller. The assignments are made dynamically using
success/failure feedback. The goal is to maximize the time average
utility, where we consider an arbitrary (possibly nonsmooth) concave and entrywise nondecreasing utility function. The problem
of merely maximizing the total throughput has a solution of
always assigning the same user-channel pairs and can be unfair
to certain users, particularly when the number of channels is less
than the number of users. Instead, our scheme allows various
types of fairness, such as proportional fairness, maximizing the
minimum, or combinations of these by defining the appropriate
utility function. We propose an algorithm for this task that is
adaptive and gets within $O(log(T)/T^{1/3}
)$ of optimality over any
interval of $T$ consecutive slots over which the success probabilities
do not change. This performance is improved to $O(1/\sqrt{
T})$ for
single-channel problems with a minimum constraint on the rate
of transmission attempts per user.
